README.md, before:

# LSCS Central Auth API

## Route Endpoints

Everything will be redirected to `/` after successful login

### GET `/members`

- returns all LSCS members from database

### POST `/check-email`
- checks if the email exists in database (indicating if it is an LSCS member or not)
- example request:
```json
{
    "email": "edwin_sadiarinjr@dlsu.edu.ph"
}
```
- example response:
```json
{ // success
  "email": "edwin_sadiarinjr@dlsu.edu.ph",
  "state": "present",
  "success": "Email is an LSCS member"
}

{ // fail
  "email": "test@dlsu.edu.ph",
  "error": "Not an LSCS member",
  "state": "absent"
}

```

GET `/login?provider=google`
- endpoint for logging in to google
- if successful: will receive token via 
- **update: just check/validate if user is already in the database (meaning they are an LSCS member)**

GET `/auth/google/callback`
- google callback

POST `/invalidate`
- for logging out

### WIP

`/refresh`
- for refresh tokens request


## JWT

flow:
- client req to `/login` endpoint
-  `/login` endpoint -> redirects to google oauth2 login page
-  google
- hit backend
- generate JWT with Claims
-  response with HttpOnly Cookie
-  for every request, decode JWT using JWT asm/sym secret

needs:
- signing key
- signing key
- algo


UPDATE:
get data of officers from API (officersdb)
then store in central db here for auth
update User schema to match the officersdb
add endpoints for validating users:
- /validate - check user email exists in database
- /login - match the officersdb
- add redirect to /login?provider=google for everything /login
  - invalidate query param if not google
- /refresh-token - should be logged in first


# Database Schema

Commit message:

docs: add what this is all about broda

README.md, after:

# LSCS Central Auth API

The official *Authentication Microservice* of **La Salle Computer Society (LSCS)**

## Usage

This is an auth microservice, meant to be used by an application backend.

*Treat this like a "middleware" with extra features, only for authenticating LSCS Members and returning necessary data from them.*


## Route Endpoints


### GET `/members`

- returns all LSCS members from database

### POST `/check-email`
- checks if the email exists in database (indicating if it is an LSCS member or not)
- example request:
```json
{
    "email": "edwin_sadiarinjr@dlsu.edu.ph"
}
```
- example response:
```json
{ // success
  "email": "edwin_sadiarinjr@dlsu.edu.ph",
  "state": "present",
  "success": "Email is an LSCS member"
}

{ // fail
  "email": "test@dlsu.edu.ph",
  "error": "Not an LSCS member",
  "state": "absent"
}

```

GET `/login?provider=google`
- endpoint for logging in to google
- if successful: will receive token via 
- **update: just check/validate if user is already in the database (meaning they are an LSCS member)**

GET `/auth/google/callback`
- google callback

POST `/invalidate`
- for logging out

### WIP

`/refresh`
- for refresh tokens request


## JWT

flow:
- client req to `/login` endpoint
-  `/login` endpoint -> redirects to google oauth2 login page
-  google
- hit backend
- generate JWT with Claims
-  response with HttpOnly Cookie
-  for every request, decode JWT using JWT asm/sym secret

needs:
- signing key
- signing key
- algo


UPDATE:
get data of officers from API (officersdb)
then store in central db here for auth
update User schema to match the officersdb
add endpoints for validating users:
- /validate - check user email exists in database
- /login - match the officersdb
- add redirect to /login?provider=google for everything /login
  - invalidate query param if not google
- /refresh-token - should be logged in first


# Database Schema
